# Leveraging Complexity

This folder contains the code and results from the "Leveraging Complexity" use case in the paper. This use case demonstrates the power of symbolic regression to learn an equation where the constants depend on the class. Specifically, the WLF equation is learned directly from experimental data where the constants are chemistry dependent.

# Environment

`SymRegWLF.py` and `SymRegWLFOneChem.py` were run on a cluster using Python 3.9.21, Julia 1.10.5 and packages as specified in `sr_requirements.txt`.

`GPModel.py` was also run on a cluster using Python 3.9.21 and packages as specified in `gp_requirements.txt`.

The remainder of the code was run locally using Python 3.12.8 and packages as specified in `requirements.txt`. However, the `SymRegWLF.py` and `SymRegWLFOneChem.py` should also be to be run with this environment assuming Julia is installed.

# Notebooks and python files

The following is a list of all the Jupyter notebooks and python files. They are listed in order of the models being built and then analyzed.

## DataSplit.ipynb

This notebook performs a stratified 4 fold split based on the class of each data point. Original data is stored in `data/WLF_data.csv`. Resulting data is saved in `data/WLF_data_folds.csv`. Please note that the splits used in the publication are already saved in `data`, so running this script will overwrite them.

## SymRegWLF.py

This python file performs symbolic regression either on the entire dataset or each fold. Results are saved to the `symreg` folder. There are many different options for hyperparameters.

## SymRegWLFOneChem.py

This python file performs symbolic regression separately on each class. Results are saved to the `symreg` folder.

## ConstrainedSimplification.py

This python file takes an equation in as a string with three type of variables: `x`, `t` and `ci` where `i` is an integer. `x` represents an actual variable. `t` represents a constant that is fixed. `ci` represent class dependent constants that are must be fit to the data to find. `i` is the number of the constant and is not related to the number of classes. The code then attempts to simplify the equation. For example `t + c3` is equal to a new constant `c6` if `c3` does not appear elsewhere in the equation. The total number of constants can not exceed the original equation. This code was generated via Google Gemini and was reviewed.

## EquationSimplification.py

This python file takes finds `.csv` files generated from running `SymRegWLF.py`. It then tries to figure out if any of the equations from any of those files can be simplified using `ConstrainedSimplification.py`. It then creates a new `.csv` file stored in `symreg` with the extension `_simplified` that contains the updated Pareto front. The simplification path is also stored such that the simplifications generated from `ConstrainedSimplification.py`, generated by Google Gemini, can be easily manually verified for accuracy.

## ViewSymReg.ipynb

This notebook plots the results of running symbolic regression with different hyperparameters. It also prints all of the suspected successful equations so they can be verified to recover the WLF equation.

## SymbolicRegressionVersusWLFfits.ipynb

This notebook plots the results of running symbolic regression on the entire dataset and directly compares it to performing fits with the WLF equation. Plot is saved in `figures`.

## IndividualClass.ipynb

This notebook plots the results of running symbolic regression on each class individually. Plots are saved in `figures`.

## GPModel.py

This python file performs Gaussian Process Regression on the dataset. Please note it requires a different environment. See `gp_requirements.txt`.

## SymbolicRegressionVersusGPR.ipynb

This notebook directly compares the results from symbolic regression with Gaussian process regression and generates a plot.

# Folders

## data

Contains the training data and splits.

## symreg

Contains results of symbolic regression runs.

## results

Contains the compiled results of symbolic regression and Gaussian Process Regression.

## figures

Contains the figures generated.
